## Describing OAuth 2.0

### What are OAuth and OpenID Connect?
#### What OAuth is:
- NOT next version of OAuth 1.0
- NOT specification for authentication
- DOESN'T solve all API security problems
- DOESN'T define how everything should work from the beggining to end
- NOT everyone understood OAuth

- Fundamentally OAuth is a framework for a user to delegate access to one system over to another system.
You're authorizing one system to act on behalf of you to that other system. You can do this to share data or functionality, or have just a streamlined experience overall.

#### Authentication vs Authorization
- Authentication is establishing who you are.
It's like using a passport or driving lycense to enter a bar. Or when you're using your credit card.
In the online world it's providing a username and password to log in.
- Authorization is establishing what you can do. It's like presenting a ticket to board a flight.
In the online world it's checking your permissions before you can edit that blog post or delete that comment.

- To map this to the real world, it's like checking into a hotel. First you present your identification(a passport) to authenticate.
Front desk review your identity and provide you with key card - this is your authorization. You're now authorized to access different places or services in the hotel.
Like entering your room or going to the pool. The key card doesn't contain any of your personal information - it's just a key.

#### Conclsion
By itself OAuth is limited and that's on purpose. It's a framework that leaves many things open to interpretation or extension.
This framework or extension model lets us have things like OpenID Connect, which again is a special case in OAuth. Extend it to a specific use case
with OpenID Connect and accomplish more than we ever could have by attempting to specify everything upfront.
